# Sudo Rights Abuse

##  sudo -l

Use case
, if the sudoers file is edited to grant a user the right to run a command such as tcpdump per the following entry in the sudoers file: (ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/tcpdump an attacker could leverage this to take advantage of a the postrotate-command option.
By specifying the -z flag, an attacker could use tcpdump to execute a shell script, gain a reverse shell as the root user or run other privileged commands. For example, an attacker could create the shell script .test containing a reverse shell and execute it as follows:
tb_student@NIX02:~$ sudo tcpdump -ln -i eth0 -w /dev/null -W 1 -G 1 -z /tmp/.test -Z root



AppArmor in more recent distributions has predefined the commands used with the postrotate-command, effectively preventing command execution. Two best practices that should always be considered when provisioning sudo rights:

1.	Always specify the absolute path to any binaries listed in the sudoers file entry. Otherwise, an attacker may be able to leverage PATH abuse (which we will see in the next section) to create a malicious binary that will be executed when the command runs (i.e., if the sudoers entry specifies cat instead of /bin/cat this could likely be abused).
2.	Grant sudo rights sparingly and based on the principle of least privilege. Does the user need full sudo rights? Can they still perform their job with one or two entries in the sudoers file? Limiting the privileged command that a user can run will greatly reduce the likelihood of successful privilege escalation.