# WordPress - Discovery & Enumeration

The [Hacking WordPress](https://academy.hackthebox.com/course/preview/hacking-wordpress) module on HTB Academy goes very far in-depth on the structure and function of WordPress and ways it can be abused.

## Discovery/Footprinting

A quick way to identify a WordPress site is by browsing to the `/robots.txt` file. A typical robots.txt on a WordPress installation may look like:

```bash
WordPress - Discovery & Enumeration
User-agent: *
Disallow: /wp-admin/
Allow: /wp-admin/admin-ajax.php
Disallow: /wp-content/uploads/wpforms/

Sitemap: https://inlanefreight.local/wp-sitemap.xml
```

> WordPress stores its plugins in the `wp-content/plugins` directory. This folder is helpful to enumerate vulnerable plugins. Themes are stored in the `wp-content/themes` directory. These files should be carefully enumerated as they may lead to RCE.

There are five types of users on a standard WordPress installation.

- **Administrator**: This user has access to administrative features within the website. This includes adding and deleting users and posts, as well as editing source code.
- **Editor**: An editor can publish and manage posts, including the posts of other users.
- **Author**: They can publish and manage their own posts.
- **Contributor**: These users can write and manage their own posts but cannot publish them.
- **Subscriber**: These are standard users who can browse posts and edit their profiles.

> Getting access to an administrator is usually sufficient to obtain code execution on the server. Editors and authors might have access to certain vulnerable plugins, which normal users don’t.


## Enumeration
cURL and grep for WordPress

```bash
curl -s http://blog.inlanefreight.local | grep WordPress

<meta name="generator" content="WordPress 5.8" /
```

Browsing the site and perusing the page source will give us hints to the theme in use, plugins installed, and even usernames if author names are published with posts. We should spend some time manually browsing the site and looking through the page source for each page, grepping for the wp-content directory, themes and plugin, and begin building a list of interesting data points.

```bash
curl -s http://blog.inlanefreight.local/ | grep themes

<link rel='stylesheet' id='bootstrap-css'  href='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/themes/business-gravity/assets/vendors/bootstrap/css/bootstrap.min.css' type='text/css' media='all' />
```

Next we will check for plugins

```bash
curl -s http://blog.inlanefreight.local/ | grep plugins

<link rel='stylesheet' id='contact-form-7-css'  href='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/includes/css/styles.css?ver=5.4.2' type='text/css' media='all' />
<script type='text/javascript' src='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/lib/subscriber.js?ver=5.8' id='subscriber-js-js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/lib/jquery.validationEngine-en.js?ver=5.8' id='validation-engine-en-js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/lib/jquery.validationEngine.js?ver=5.8' id='validation-engine-js'></script>
		<link rel='stylesheet' id='mm_frontend-css'  href='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta/lib/css/mm_frontend.css?ver=5.8' type='text/css' media='all' />
<script type='text/javascript' src='http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/includes/js/index.js?ver=5.4.2' id='contact-form-7-js'></script>
```

## Enumerating Users

The default WordPress login page can be found at `/wp-login.php`.

There are different error messages for incorrect username and password:

- Incorrect username: `The user with username admin is not registered`
- Incorrect password: `Password you entered for user admin is Incorrect`

Additionally, we can try enumerating users by using a brute force attack on the login page.


## WPScan
WPScan is an automated WordPress scanner and enumeration tool.

### Basis enumberation
```bash
sudo wpscan --url http://blog.inlanefreight.local --enumerate --api-token dEOFB<SNIP>
```

The approach we took in this section, combining both manual and automated enumeration, can be applied to almost any application we uncover. Scanners are great and are very useful but cannot replace the human touch and a curious mind. Honing our enumeration skills can set us apart from the crowd as excellent penetration testers.

### Moving On

From the data we gathered manually and using WPScan, we now know the following:

- The site is running WordPress core version 5.8, which does suffer from some vulnerabilities that do not seem interesting at this point
- The installed theme is Transport Gravity
- The following plugins are in use: Contact Form 7, mail-masta, wpDiscuz
- The wpDiscuz version is 7.0.4, which suffers from an unauthenticated remote code execution vulnerability
- The mail-masta version is 1.0.0, which suffers from a Local File Inclusion vulnerability as well as SQL injection
- The WordPress site is vulnerable to user enumeration, and the users admin and john are confirmed to be valid users
- Directory listing is enabled throughout the site, which may lead to sensitive data exposure
- XML-RPC is enabled, which can be leveraged to perform a password brute-forcing attack against the login page using WPScan, Metasploit, etc.



`
Performing manual enumeration using curl and grep themes, plugins, etc
Perform automated enumerations using WPScan
Most of plugin will have readme.txt file which can be used to gather information like: *http://blog.inlanefreight.local/wp-content/plugins/wp-sitemap-page/readme.txt*
