# Environment Enumeration

## Gaining Situational Awareness: Must
Typically we'll want to run a few basic commands to orient ourselves:

 - whoami - what user are we running as
 - id - what groups does our user belong to?
 - hostname - what is the server named, can we gather anything from the naming convention?
 - ifconfig or ip a - what subnet did we land in, does the host have additional NICs in other subnets?
 - sudo -l - can our user run anything with sudo (as another user as root) without needing a password? This can sometimes be the easiest win and we can do something like sudo su and drop right into a root shell.


1. We'll start out by checking out what operating system and version we are dealing with.

  Environment Enumeration
`$ cat /etc/os-release`


Use these:
cat /etc/os-release
echo $PATH
env
uname -a
lscpu
cat /etc/shells


We should also check to see if any defenses are in place and we can enumerate any information about them. Some things to look for include:

Exec Shield
iptables
AppArmor
SELinux
Fail2ban
Snort
Uncomplicated Firewall (ufw)


lsblk
lpstat
cat /etc/fstab
 route or netstat -rn.
arp -a

 /etc/resolv.conf for checking domain


 check for all the users available in the system: cat /etc/passwd | cut -f1 -d:

Algorithm	Hash
Salted MD5	$1$...
SHA-256	$5$...
SHA-512	$6$...
BCrypt	$2a$...
Scrypt	$7$...
Argon2	$argon2i$...


check for users having shells: grep "sh$" /etc/passwd
Can use the info previously obtained for all the shells available in the system and here to map and check for the version to be able to exploit them.


check for the users in the groups from /etc/group file
> getent group sudo

check for all the users having a home directory: cat /etc/passwd | cut -f1 -d: | xargs -I {} bash -c 'if [ -d "/home/{}" ]; then echo "{}"; fi'


try to read the bash_history file of any user to be containing sensitive insformation.

check for the ssh keys available:  potentially to escalate privileges, or to assist with pivoting and port forwarding further into the internal network.

 check the ARP cache to see what other hosts are being accessed and cross-reference these against any useable SSH private keys.

 Check for the mounted filesystems
 df -h.


 Unmounted File Systems
   Environment Enumeration
 pratik04dabhi@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/fstab | grep -v "#" | column -t


All Hidden Files
  Environment Enumeration
pratik04dabhi@htb[/htb]$ find / -type f -name ".*" -exec ls -l {} \; 2>/dev/null | grep htb-student


All Hidden Directories
  Environment Enumeration
pratik04dabhi@htb[/htb]$ find / -type d -name ".*" -ls 2>/dev/null




Temporary Files
  Environment Enumeration
pratik04dabhi@htb[/htb]$ ls -l /tmp /var/tmp /dev/shm
